# CPE 321 2021/22 PQ

**For questions involving logarithm/exponential or inverse logarithm/exponential, refer to the lecturers' solutions here:**

[Solution](../solutions)

## Question 1

- With respect to SDT, design a basic electronic calculator using Java programming language to do the following:
    - Addition
    - Subtraction
    - Multiplication
    - Division

[Solution](./q1.java)

- Discuss the types of Java applications and their functions.
    1. **Standalone applications**: Also known as desktop applications, these are applications that are designed to run on a single computer or local machine of a user, without the need for a server or internet connection.
    2. **Web applications**: These are applications that do not require installation and can be accessed from a remote server 
    via a web browser. They operate by allowing users to send and receive data between a browser and web server.
    3. **Enterprise applications**: Enterprise applications are large-scale software solutions designed to streamline and automate various processes of an organization's operations. With respect to Java, enterprise applications are applications that conform the the Java Platform, Enterprise Edition (Java EE) specification. 
    4. **Mobile applications**: Mobile applications are software applications designed to run on mobile devices such as phones and tablets. 

- Describe the Java virtual machine (JVM), its architecture and components.

    The Java Virtual Machine (JVM) is a virtual machine or runtime environment that allows Java programs to run and operate on multiple devices and operating systems. Java applications are known as WORA (Write Once Run Anywhere). The implementation of a JVM is a Java Runtime Environment (JRE). The JRE is a specification about the workings of a JVM.

    JVM architecture can be divided into three major components:

    - **Class loader**: This is a subsystem of the JVM that is used to load class files into the main memory. The primary operations performed by the class loader are loading, linking, and initialization.
    - **JVM memory**: Memory management is performed by the JVM memory. Memory areas allocated by the JVM include: method area, heap area, stack area, PC registers and the native method stack.
    - **Execution engine**: This is a component of the JVM architecture that is responsible for interpreting and executing Java bytecode, or performing just-in-time (JIT) compilation. It utilizes information and data available from different memory areas and then executes instructions.
- Describe the Java platforms and their parts.
    
    Java platforms consist of a Java Virtual Machine (JVM) and an Application Programming Interface (API). The JVM is a program, for a particular hardware and software platform, that runs Java technology applications. An API is a collection of software components that is used to create other software components or applications. There are four platforms of the Java programming language:

    1. **Java Platform, Standard Edition (Java SE)**: The Java SE's API provides the core functionality of the Java programming language. The Java SE platform consists of a virtual machine, development tools, deployment technologies, and other class libraries and toolkits commonly used in Java applications.

    2. **Java Platform, Enterprise Edition (Java EE)**: The Java EE platform is built on top of the Java SE platform. This platform provides an API and runtime environment for developing and running large-scale, scalable, reliable, and secure network applications.

    3. **Java Platform, Micro Edition (Java ME)**: The Java ME platform provides an API and a small-footprint virtual machine for running Java applications on small devices, like mobile phones. The API is a subset of the Java SE API, and it contains special class libraries useful for application development on small devices.
    
    4. **Java FX**: This is a platform that is used for creating internet applications written in Java FX Script. Java FX Script is a statically-typed declarative language that is compiled to Java technology bytecode, which can then be run on a Java virtual machine. Applications written using this platform can include and link to Java programming language classes, and also serve as clients of Java EE platform services.

- Explain the functions of the Java development kit (JDK) as opposed to a conventional integrated development environment.

    The Java Development Kit (JDK) is a cross-platform software development environment that offers a collection of tools and libraries necessary for developing Java-based software applications and applets. On the other hand, an IDE is a software application that provides an integrated environment for writing, compiling, debugging and managing code. While a JDK can be used for compiling, running and debugging Java applications, an IDE provides features such as syntax highlighting, version control, code refactoring and optimization tools. A JDK can be used in conjunction with a IDE to ease the process of application development for software engineers. 

<!-- ## Question 2

- With respect to SDT, using C++, develop a program to calculate the following:
    - [List first 12 Napierian logarithmic function to base-e in radians but takes in the number in degrees.](./q2i.cpp)
    - [List the first 12 inverse Napierian logarithmic function to base-e in radians but takes in the numbers in degrees.](./q2ii.cpp)


## Question 3

- With respect to SDT, using C++, develop a program to calculate the following:
    - [List first 12 exponential function in radians but takes in the numbers in degrees.](./q3i.cpp)
    - [List the first 12 inverse exponential function in radians but takes in the numbers in degrees.](./q3ii.cpp) -->

## Question 4

- With respect to SDT, using C++, develop a program to calculate the following:
    - Mean
    - Median
    - Mode

From the following numbers: 1,2,4,5,7,7,8,8,8,8,9

[Solution](./q4.cpp)

<!-- ## Question 5

- With respect to SDT, Using C++, develop a program to calculate the following.
    - [List first 12 logarithmic function to base-2 in radians but takes in the number in degrees.](./q5i.cpp)
    - [List the first 12 inverse logarithmic function to base-2 in radians but takes in the numbers in degrees.](./q5ii.cpp) -->